This is one of the multiple videos discussing or writing information protocol.
This is a troubleshooting video.
In this scenario we've been told that route one is not able to ping the loop back of rota for so let's
verify that paying for it for that for that for
we can see that the ping fails.
So let's have a look at the writing table.
Show IP right.
OK so here's a problem we don't have any rats in the writing table.
Show IP protocols rope is enabled on the router it's enabled on the gigabit 00 interface and the loopback
interface which looks correct on brought a one according to this output we are receiving information
from Rodda 10 1 1 2.
But in the writing table we don't see those rats.
Notice the last update was 11 minutes ago.
So this is stale information or old information 12 minutes since we had an update from that Rodda show
CGP neighbors.
We do see Rodda to as a neighbor can we paying rodded to yes we can debug IP RPX are we receiving any
updates from router to OK Serrato one is sending an update out of the gigabit interface.
But at the moment we are not receiving any updates from router to while we waiting for that up put all
debug on brought it to debug.
IP rep.
So back on Route 1 we are sending an update out of gigabit 00 we sending an update out of the loop back
we sending an update out if you give it 0 0.
But we are not receiving any updates on this site.
We are sending an update out of the loop back sending an update out of gigabit 0 1.
We've received an update on gigabit 00.
But what are we not doing.
What do you think is the problem based on the output.
I'll turn off the debug show IP protocols Rupp is enabled on right to.
Can you see the problem based on this output.
What's wrong here.
Well scroll down.
What's wrong.
Based on the output OK.
Look at this passive interface when you configure and interfaces Pesah and rip it means it won't send
updates out of that interface.
It will receive them.
So notice it too is receiving information about the loopback.
Overall a one but Rotto one is not receiving Roths from rodded.
So turn the debug off on the side as well.
Notice that one has no Roths in the writing table but two does have the loop back of a one in the writing
table.
So it's receiving updates but it's not sending them out because of this passive command show run section
wrap those command means that Rodda to will not send updates on of kippot 0 0.
So brought up no passive interface kickabout 0 0
show run section wrap that should hopefully have solved the problem and it has.
We are receiving updates about the loopback of Ratatouille.
So Ping to talk to the 1:58 we can ping the loop back of router to show IP route is the correct answer
is no we don't see a route to the loopback of route of 4.
So it's kind of working but we haven't solved all the problems yet.
So rotten one doesn't have network fault at fault for in the running table and it doesn't have it in
the database.
What about router to show IP route network for doesn't show up in the writing table and doesn't show
up in the database.
But we do have a Network 10 1 3 0 in the writing table and in the database.
So Kemy ping 10 1 3 1.
Yes we can put about 10 1 3 2.
Yes we can but we don't see quadruple four in the writing table some routers three show IP rot reform
is not shown in the running table and he's not shown in the database what about and wrote for show IP
Raat so forward for that photoed Foy's directly connected share of IP Ripp database.
What do you think is the problem the network shows up as directly connected as you can see over there
but it's not shown in the database what's the problem.
Show run pipe section wrap.
What's the problem.
In this example.
Network for he's not being advertised not entered it that way.
Remember what it does it changes to 4.0 etc. 0.0 because this is a class a network show IP Ripp database
that network is now shown in the database.
Hopefully it's got all the way to root of one.
It hasn't yet shown IP rot not in the database of of one yet.
What about router 3 still hasn't learnt about that network.
Show IP route show IP RDP database that looks good.
Might just take a while.
Rip is not like other routing protocols that advertise things a lot quicker.
Well perhaps there's another problem.
Three can paying the loop backs of product one and brought it to kind of Pinga loop back of route for
On know.
So let's do some more trouble shooting debug IP wrap on rockfall de-bug IP rap on rotas 3.
Let's see if we see any problems in the de-bunk show IP protocols.
Represent abled on both interfaces and the loopback of rotas 3 show IP protocols on route a full.
Can you see a problem.
If we look in the debug notice rotisseries is ignoring a rep version one packet from 10 1 3 2 so on
all show IP protocols once again shows us that the same version on gigabit 00 on rotatory is version
1 on the side show IP protocols.
The Senate version is to and received version is to wrote for will accept both version one and version
two on the gigabit interface but rather three will only receive version 2 and 4 is sending version 1.
So show run interface gigabit to 0 0 no configuration shown there show run pipe section wrap no configuration
on that.
So let's go into the gigabit interface and type IP up sand version 1 and 2.
So I'll change it to send both versions.
You could nail it down which would be better as only version 2 to be consistent but just to show you
the option.
Notice we are sending and receiving version 1 and 2.
And on this side we are sending and receiving version 2.
So show IP Ropp Now we should start learning about the loopback of Rotto for let's confirm this de-bug
IP RBP
show IP database the network 4 is advertised by repatched shown up in the database.
We did receive an update about network for no using up version 2 the version 1 update was ignored.
But the version to update was accepted.
So show IP route.
We now see network fall in the writing table and we can paying the loopback of a full Saltoun of debugging.
Just proved again we can ping the loopback or for show IP rot on Route 1.
We see the loop back over.
And we can ping the Lubeck of a waterfall.
So that was an example of how to troubleshoot up in this example there were multiple problems in the
network.
We had inconsistent versions of rip where passive interfaces and we weren't advertising a network correctly
using the network.
C'mon Okay enjoyed this video.
If it was of benefit to you please like a piece of scribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.